[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: So the first thing
that I wanna do before we get started,
is to ensure everybody is at a good place
with their local development environment.
So that GitHub repository, that I sent
out before, contains what should be,
at this point, a fully functional no JS
web application that you can run locally.
So if you head out,
if you haven't gone there already,
it's actually up on my GitHub repository.
GitHub.com/kwhinnery/todomvc-plusplus, and
thanks to some great QA from
here in the room earlier.
I believe that ReadMe should take you all
the way through actually getting this
thing set up locally on your laptop.
And I think that is the first step that
we need to accomplish before we get on to
some of the other things.
So we'll take as much time as we need,
hopefully,
not too much time, just to make sure that
we get everybody with a functioning local
development environment so
they can start playing along at home.
So let's go ahead and do that, and
I'll be coming around to help
folks as they might need help.
The one potential tripping point for
a local development environment,
may or may not be getting like
post grads up and running.
Postgres can be kind of a bear to
configure for local local development.
So if you want to take
sort of a short cut,
there is a service out there you
can sign up for called ElephantSQL.
And you can actually provision
a shared Postgres database for free.
And we can drop that database
configuration directly
into your application.
So I would invite you to
go through the README,
start taking those steps
if you haven't already.
And while you're doing that,
I'll very briefly kind of
go through the structure of the
application project as it exists today.
So you have a sense of where to look for
what.
So I'll browse it out here on GitHub.
And the bits that I'll draw your
attention to you right away are this bit,
the grant file, which I'll dive
into you a little bit later.
And that's sort of the nexus for
most of the administrative commands
that will run for this application.
Grunt is a general purpose task runner.
Again, that will dive
into in more depth later.
We have a package.json, which contains
all of our projects dependencies,
that you'll be installing.
And then we have a bin directory,
which contains the the JavaScript file,
which actually run a watch is the HTTP
server, which powers our application.
And then right now we just have one
custom grunt task located in this
directory as well.
But anything having to do with any
custom code, we're gonna write for
the command lives in there.
The configure directory,
this is how we use it.
It's sort of loosely based
on Django configuration, but
we have a this index.js,
which has sort of the global defaults for
the applications configuration.
And then we have a configuration files
with overrides for the development
production and test environments so
you can dig through that if you like.
But we also have this file user.save.js,
which doesn't have
anything in it right now.
But if you create a user.js for
local development,
you could override any of
the configuration settings there.
Such as a custom database URL perhaps,
if you go the route of spinning
up an ElephantSQL database
rather than having a local one.
So configuration lives there,
we have this db directory,
and the primary bit you'll be
interested in is this is where we have
configured our orm to place the migration
files for this application.
We are using a relational database for
this application, so
as we modify the database we'll have to
create migrations to move the database
from one state to another.
If you're used frameworks like Rails or
maybe hibernate before you kind
of familiar with this concept.
The source directory is where
most of the fun stuff lives.
The browser directory has all of the front
end JavaScript code and as SCSS files.
The static directory contains
things that will be copied over
verbatim into the web
root of your application.
The server directory contains
our express web app,
our mocha task for our back end code.
It also contains the model directory which
configures our database connection and
defines the model objects for
our application.
We have controllers which have the routes
for our application, and this to do is
controller, which actually powers all
of the routes in the application.
If you don't know what these things are
don't worry we'll kind of dive into more
of them as we go.
Now we also have the views directory
which actually has the HTML which will
serve the front end for this application.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And there is a tiny
bit of shared code, in my experience,
the opportunity for
code reads on client and
server is not maybe as
great as you had hoped.
The bigger win is the ability
to write the same kind of code.
And both line in the server, but
there is a tiny bit of affordance for
shared code across platforms.
And will if you have any questions
about other stuff as we go along.
I'd be happy to be happy to go
specifically into any of the decisions or
the other other bits there.
But many of them will go over
as we go through the course.
So at this point, what I would like
to do is ensure that everybody
gets the application going locally
to the point where they can
run a grunt in the top level
application directory.
Which will fire up a couple
of neat tools which will
monitor your application project for
changes.
And then execute compilation steps or
relaunching the application
based on changes.
So what you should be able to do
with a running Postgres database and
a valid database connection
is I have a persistent set of
todos that will stick with
you across page refreshes.
Because in this instance, they're actually
being stored in a Postgres database.
So this is the step that I
would like to get everybody to.
So we'll spend a little bit of time doing
that before we dive into some of the code
that drives the web server.
All right, so I remiked myself
because I was talking about the option
of using ElephantSQL rather
than a local Postgre database.
It looks like my configuration
might not be totally sound as yet.
Because I haven't run the migrations
cuz I change my database URL, but
I didn't run the migrations.
So I am going to run sequelize db:migrate.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
that should go across the network and
update my ElephantSQL database.
>> Speaker 2: Show us where
you change the config.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And again where I
change that config was I created a file
called user.js in the config directory.
And I didn't override for this database
URL property, and you can actually copy
the configuration like say from the test
environment and just bring that over.
And then you can paste
in that Postgres URL,
you get from ElephantSQL.
And now when I refresh, I get an empty
list of to do's which is okay.
And if I go back to the UI,
I should start being able to
pop in some to do list items.
So the steps there would be to update
the configuration to your ElephantSQL
database URL to go out to the terminal and
execute, sequelize db:migrate.
And then you can rerun your
development server with Grunt and
you should be off to the races from there.
>> Speaker 3: And
what is the get path to ElephantSQL?
>> Kevin Whinnery: It is,
>> Kevin Whinnery: If you go to
ElephantSQL.com, you can sign up for an
account, and then you can create your own.
>> Speaker 3: What are the limitations
on ElephantSQL, as far as use?
>> Kevin Whinnery: The free
database is only 20 megabytes.
So that would be the big one right there.
But you can create multiple free
databases if you would like.
>> Speaker 2: Charting across free.
[LAUGH]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yes,
maybe it has some other
fun features as well.
But use this a couple times in workshops
just for something quick and dirty.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right, so,
>> Kevin Whinnery: We have a couple folks
online reporting an issue that was,
if you loaded up the README earlier.
We actually discovered some bugs in it,
I apologize,
here in the room earlier this morning.
If you're loading up the page and
you don't see, and
the style sheets aren't being loaded
run grunt collect_static, and
collects static has an underscore
between the collect and static.
The README on GitHub has been
updated to reflect this.
But that will copy over the static
CSS files that you need to be
in that public directory.
So the README is with
updated to reflect that.
But I'll show one more time is the fastest
path to success with Postgres,
which I think is where most
people are tripping up.
If you're on the repo and
following the README, we'll start
kind of right from the beginning.
You're still gonna wanna do this
after you download the code.
If you haven't already,
you wanna do npm install in the directory
in which you downloaded the code.
You wanna do npm install -g grunt-cli and
sequalize cli, and
that'll put two new commands
on your system path.
One is called grunt, and that's the task
order that we're gonna be using.
And another is called sequelize, and that
will control the database migrations and
the other stuff the only to do later.
And then for setting up the database,
if you don't wanna go the route or
were not successful going
the route of getting
a local Postgres database
going with these instructions.
Simply forgo these instructions and
create a database using ElephantSQL
which you can sign up for
a free account at elephantsql.com.
Then once you have signed up for one,
the first thing you're gonna see
is a URL for your database info.
And you can use this connection string
in lieu of a local Postgres database.
So to connect to this database rather
than one that's running locally
inside your application folder here.
And this is the code that you
downloaded from GitHub or
you cloned when you got the repository.
You will create a file called user.js, and
you can initialize
the contents of that file with
what's in the test.js file or similar.
And then you will copy in your ElephantSQL
database string into this file.
And then the application will connect to
that ElephantSQL database rather than one
that's running locally.
After you do that,
then you can continue along with the rest
of the instructions in the README.
See, you will then do
sequelize db:migrate.
And then you will do grunt collect_static,
and then at that point,
you should be able to run the application
locally just by running the grunt command.
So we'll make sure that we
get everybody to that step.
But again, I think the fastest path
to success is signing up, if you're
struggling with Postgres locally, sign
up for an account here and ElephantSQL.
And just go ahead and use that,
we'll be totally fine for
our little local development purposes.
Right, so we will come around make
sure if anybody still needs help.
And when we get into the next exercise,
we make sure everybody starts by getting
the local development environment radio.